"There was, at times, a want of spirits about him which, if it did not denote indifference, spoke a something almost as unpromising."

"A doubt of her regard, supposing him to feel it, need not give him more than inquietude."

"It would not be likely to produce that dejection of mind which frequently attended him."

"A more reasonable cause might be found in the dependent situation which forbad the indulgence of his affection."

"She knew that his mother neither behaved to him so as to make his home comfortable at present, nor to give him any assurance that he might form a home for himself, without strictly attending to her views for his aggrandisement."

"She was far from depending on that result of his preference of her, which her mother and sister still considered as certain."

"But, whatever might really be its limits, it was enough, when perceived by his sister, to make her uneasy, and at the same time (which was still more common) to make her uncivil."

"Her wisdom, too, limited the number of their servants to three; two maids and a man, with whom they were speedily provided from amongst those who had formed their establishment at Norland."

"when shall I cease to regret you!-when learn to feel a home elsewhere!-Oh! happy house, could you know what I suffer in now viewing you from this spot, from whence, perhaps, I may view you no more!—And you, ye well-known trees!-but you will continue the same. No leaf will decay because we are removed, nor any branch become motionless although we can observe you no longer!—No; you will continue the same; unconscious of the pleasure or the regret you occasion, and insensible of any change in those who walk under your shade! —But who will remain to enjoy you?"

"The first part of their journey was performed in too melancholy a disposition to be otherwise than tedious and unpleasant."

"From first seeing the place under the advantage of good weather, they received an impression in its favour which was of material service in recommending it to their lasting approbation."

"The hills which surrounded the cottage terminated the valley in that direction; under another name, and in another course, it branched out again between two of the steepest of them."

"I have some thoughts of throwing the passage into one of them, with perhaps a part of the other, and so leave the remainder of that other for an entrance;"

"Though his entreaties were carried to a point of perseverance beyond civility, they could not give offence."

"He insisted, moreover, on conveying all their letters to and from the post for them, and would not be denied the satisfaction of sending them his newspaper every day."

"It was necessary to the happiness of both; for however dissimilar in temper and outward behaviour, they strongly resembled each other in that total want of talent and taste which confined their employments, unconnected with such as society produced, within a very narrow compass."

"Colonel Brandon, the friend of Sir John, seemed no more adapted by resemblance of manner to be his friend, than Lady Middleton was to be his wife, or Mrs. Jennings to be Lady Middleton's mother."

"I never see him myself without taking pains to converse with him."

"She was reasonable enough to allow that a man of five-and-thirty might well have outlived all acuteness of feeling, and every exquisite power of enjoyment."

"She was perfectly disposed to make every allowance for the colonel's advanced state of life which humanity required."

"She was remarkably quick in the discovery of attachments, and had enjoyed the advantage of raising the blushes and the vanity of many a young lady by insinuations of her power over such a young man;"

"To the former her raillery was probably, as far as it regarded only himself, perfectly indifferent; but to the latter it was at first incomprehensible; and when its object was understood, she hardly knew whether most to laugh at its absurdity, or censure its impertinence; for she considered it as an unfeeling reflection on the colonel's advanced years, and on his forlorn condition as an old bachelor."

"But he talked of flannel waistcoats, "5 said Marianne; "and with me a flannel waistcoat is invariably connected with aches, cramps, rheumatisms, and every species of ailment that can afflict the old and the feeble.""

"Had he been only in a violent fever, you would not have despised him half so much. Confess, Marianne, is not there something interesting to you in the flushed cheek, hollow eye, and quick pulse of a fever?"

"The house and the garden, with all the objects surrounding them, were now become familiar, and the ordinary pursuits which had given to Norland half its charms were engaged in again with far greater enjoyment than Norland had been able to afford since the loss of their father."

"The high downs, which invited them from almost every window of the cottage to seek the exquisite enjoyment of air on their summits, were a happy alternative when the dirt of the valleys beneath shut up their superior beauties;"

"His name, he replied, was Willoughby, and his present home was at Allenham, from whence he hoped she would allow him the honour of calling to-morrow to enquire after Miss Dashwood."

"The laugh which his gallantry raised against Marianne received particular spirit from his exterior attractions."

"The raillery which the other had incurred before any partiality arose was removed when his feelings began really to call for the ridicule so justly annexed to sensibility."

"However a general resemblance of disposition between the parties might forward the affection of Mr. Willoughby an equally striking opposition of character was no hinderance to the regard of Colonel Brandon."

"I never see him myself without taking pains to converse with him."

"But perhaps the abuse of such people as yourself and Marianne will make amends for the regard of Lady Middleton and her mother. If their praise is censure, your censure may be praise, for they are not more undiscerning, than you are prejudiced and unjust."

"He would have told me so, I doubt not, had I made any such enquiries, but they happened to be points on which I had been previously informed."

"You decide on his imperfections so much in the mass,"

"But Marianne abhorred all concealment where no real disgrace could attend unreserve;"

"A few years, however, will settle her opinions on the reasonable basis of common sense and observation; and then they may be more easy to define and to justify than they now are, by any body but herself."

"The lady would probably have passed without suspicion had he not convinced Miss Dashwood that what concerned her ought not to escape his lips. As it was, it required but a slight effort of fancy to connect his emotion with the tender recollection of past regard. Elinor attempted no more. But Marianne, in her place, would not have done so little. The whole story would have been speedily formed under her active imagination; and every thing established in the most melancholy order of disastrous love."

"Queen Mab: Willoughby's reference is to the fairy midwife who appears in Mercutio's speech to Romeo about the nature of dreams in Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet. His use of Shakespeare here suggests his ties to the theater and also foreshadows the direction of his relationship with Marianne."

"From that moment she doubted not of their being engaged to each other; and the belief of it created no other surprise than that she, or any of their friends, should be left by tempers so frank, to discover it by accident."

"The grounds were declared to be highly beautiful; and Sir John, who was particularly warm in their praise, might be allowed to be a tolerable judge, for he had formed parties to visit them,"

"May she always be poor, if she can employ her riches no better."

"this dear parlour in which our acquaintance first began, and in which so many happy hours have been since spent by us together, you would degrade to the condition of a common entrance, and every body would be eager to pass through the room which has hitherto contained within itself more real accommodation and comfort than any other apartment of the handsomest dimensions in the world could possibly afford."

"How little did I then think that the very first news I should hear from Mrs. Smith, when I next came into the country, would be that Barton cottage was taken; and I felt an immediate satisfaction and interest in the event, which nothing but a kind of prescience of what happiness I should experience from it can account for. "